>> Sarah Drasner: So there's a book
called Making and Breaking the Grid.
If you want to learn about grid and
composition, this is the best material.
It's like unlike the 20 million version
I think because people still go to,
people still teach it in design school.
If you go to a design school the first
thing they're gonna tell you
is to buy this book because it is really,
really important.
It is really important
to understand grids.
Even if you don't wanna use them.
Even if you don't wanna use them,
you should understand why you're
breaking those rules, right?
It's kind of like the design
version of best practices, right?
You should know best practices, and then
if you don't do them at least you know why
you're not doing that or
why are the best practices important?
Actually there's a good joke
about this that somebody asked.
Do developers have any superstitions?
And the answer is yeah, best practices.
[LAUGH] So
this book is really a great one, and
it's kind of an old-school one, but they
keep it up to date with new examples and
stuff and it's really awesome.
So what do I mean by using a grid and
making a grid?
Well, one of the things that we're
doing when we create with grids, and
it doesn't necessarily have to be just one
solid grid that you're following
every piece of that grid.
But it's really this idea that you're
anchoring things to one another,
that things aren't just thrown
around on your design, that you have
many different elements, they all
have a thing that they're locking to.
Because look at that line at the top,
right?
That's like a really curvy,
not part of a grid system line.
They're breaking the grid in
order to bring that line.
But everything is anchored
to something else.
Nothing is just thrown onto to the page.
And if I took this design and
just moved things a little bit,
so they weren't anchored anymore.
You wouldn't like it anymore.
I know it's sounds crazy, but
you would be like it feels disorganised,
it just feels little chaotic.
So this idea of anchoring things to one
another in order to bring them on to
the picture, and they're not even anchored
in a way where like A goes to B, goes to C
goes to D it's not the thing at the bottom
is anchored to the thing on the side.
The patterns in design baseline, is lined
up here, that nationwide remember we
talked about curves and circles needing to
etch out a little bit from those lines,
that's what they're doing right there.
>> Sarah Drasner: This is another one of
those things where once I explain this and
you see it,
you will not stop seeing it anywhere.
So you can pull down
designs from Kripal and
start to draw lines across them and
be like, look at all the anchoring.
[LAUGH] People are anchoring
all the time and
that's a way that people keep
those designs consistent.
So when you're working with a UX
designer or a UI designer and you're
a developer and they're like that needs
to be brought up just by this amount,
and you're like no it doesn't, why?
That's so hard for me to do,
it doesn't matter.
It actually kinda does [LAUGH].
There's a lot of these
things that actually when
a product manager comes over to a designer
and is like move that to the right.
And they're like why do you wanna
move it to the right, what are you?
They are trying to ask, so
that they can solve the problem.
Because it's not as simple as just
move this thing to the right.
The whole design starts to break
apart if you do that enough.
If I kept moving these things
out of their anchoring,
eventually the design breaks down.
So when you hear a designer asking those
questions, they're like let me solve that
problem for you, but we're gonna keep
it anchored and keep it cohesive.
And I'm gonna use all of
these design rules that.
They're not saying that out loud, right?
They're thinking in their minds.
Like I need to still follow some rules
here while solving whatever problem
you're trying to have me solve.
>> Sarah Drasner: So
here's an example of Grid, right?
This is right out of the book,
Making and breaking the Grid.
It provides a systematic ordered layout,
we mentioned this before and there's this
a phrase that is used a few times over and
over again in this book,
that's called the architecture of space.
And I really like that, I think it does
breakdown how you think about having
spacial awareness within a thing.
You notice that when you
walk into a building, right?
You'll notice whether a hallway
has a high ceiling and whether or
not you can find your way into.
You may not think this place has
a high ceiling but you're like, wow,
this place is so open or like wow,
okay, I can't really find my way around
here or these hallways are crazy.
You don't know why the hallways are crazy
but that's all pieces of architecture.
Same with layout.
If you visit a design and
you're constantly confused as to where to
go the architecture of that layout is not
kind of working the way
that you had expected.
So in this making and
breaking the grid book,
there's a lot of these kind of
sections that go over alignment logic.
And we're not gonna go over all, again,
we don't have time to go over all of
these things because that would probably
mean that we were gonna be here for
the next like four years.
[LAUGH] But this is a really great way of
checking out how to make and
break grids for your own projects.
And some reasoning behind each one,
you're gonna be making some
of these in just a minute.
So this is the kind of idea
that you're gonna be employing.
We have sketchbooks that you can use where
if you have something like Photoshop or
Illustrator on your computer,
you can use that as well.
I don't assume that you do, so
we've got sketchbooks instead.
And you're gonna basically be
drawing out these compositions and
just taking some good old fashion lines
and coloring some good old fashion
squares to play around with layout
concepts in a way you that might not.
And I think that's important to do
away at first from the browser.
Designing in the browser is
something that people can do but
I think that you shouldn't start there.
And the reason why is when I'm developing,
I'm in problem solving mode.
I'm trying to find the quickest,
most efficient path to making
things layout on the page, right?
That doesn't make for a very good design
cuz the quickest, most efficient way
of laying things out on the page is
[SOUND] just putting it on the page,
and design takes a little
bit more care than that.
So in order to kind of compartmentalize
and think differently about things,
I have to kind of put on my designer hat,
think of it one way.
And then think of it from
a developer's perspective and
say, okay now how do I get that done?
Its almost like setting up challenges for
yourself.
So you have to not think of the developer
as yourself in some ways because
you don't want it to be
the most efficient path.
Laying any one of these things out
might not be the most efficient
path if you're thinking about
it in terms of CSS lab.
But it will really payoff when you're
starting to create these designs that
people are like, wow,
that is much more interesting and
unique than something
that I've seen before.
>> Sarah Drasner: So I like this quote,
the grid is like a lion in a cage, and
the designer is the lion tamer.
It's fun to play with the lion, but
the design has to know when to get
out before the lion eats them.
[LAUGH] So the book is called Making and
Breaking the Grid.
It's important to actually break the Grid
as well to kind of break the rules as
you set things up, because if it's
too systematic it's too predictable.